Adds pegout_confirmed RSKIP346 (#346)
rsksmart/RSKIPs: IPs/RSKIP326.md

|**Purpose**    |Usa |
|**Layer**      |Core |
|**Complexity** |2 |
|**Status**     |Draft |

## Abstract

### release_request_received format

As of now, the `btcDestinationAddress` field logged by the `release_request_received` event is a hash160 bytes format which is not user friendly. This RSKIP proposes updating the `btcDestinationAddress` field to the string format which is more user friendly.

### New pegout_confirmed event

Currently no event is being emitted when a pegout that is waiting for confirmation (in the `releaseTransactionSet` structure) has the required confirmations and is moved to waiting for signatures (to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`).
Right now, to check if a pegout has enough confirmation and that is moved to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures` structure, we need to get the state of the bridge and look for the pegout in `releaseTransactionSet` or `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`, which is not that performant or convenient.

We need to add a new event to the Bridge that will be emitted when the Bridge moves a pegout to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`.
I propose this event is called `pegout_confirmed`.

### add_signature event logging order

> At the moment the `add_signature` event is being emitted before actually adding the signature.

Reviewer: I think this could fit better into the Motivation or Specification sections. We could simply add a summary here explaining the purpose of this RSKIP (to improve UX by emitting meaningful events)

## Specification

### release_request_received changes

#### Current signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, bytes btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

The btcDestinationAddress field is currently in the bytes format.

#### Proposed signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, string btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

The btcDestinationAddress field will be updated to a user friendly string format.

##### Data

- sender: the RSK address of the peg-out requester.
- btcDestinationAddress: the derived BTC address of said RSK address, where the BTC will be transferred to.
- amount: amount in weis the user sent to the Bridge (this doesn't reflect how many BTC will be received since transfer fees will be deducted from that amount).

If `RSKIP326` is activated, the event will log the `btcDestinationAddress` field in a user friendly string format.

### pegout_confirmed event signature and description

This event will exist after the batch pegout consensus changes (HOP, RSKIP271).

```
pegout_confirmed(bytes32 indexed btcTxHash, uint pegoutCreationBlockNumber)
```

> - `btcTxHash`: the hash of the Bitcoin transaction without signatures that was just confirmed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `btcTxHash`: the hash of the Bitcoin transaction without signatures that was just created
```
Confirmed sounds to me as if it was mined and has certain amount of confirmations already

- `pegoutCreationBlockNumber`: the block where the pegout transaction was created, this is just informational value and totally optional

### add_signature event logging order

At the end of the `BridgeSupport::addSignature` method, we can see that is calling `eventLogger.logAddSignature` before `BridgeSupport::processSigning`.

> So, I propose to remove the `eventLogger.logAddSignature` call from `BridgeSupport::addSignature` and use it inside `BridgeSupport::processSigning` when the signature is actually added to the btcTx.

Reviewer: I wouldn't go into code details.  You could just explain the general idea, only emmit add_signature event when the tx is actually signed and not when it tries to sign it

# Pegout events improvements

|RSKIP          |326           |
| :------------ |:-------------|
|**Title**      |Pegout events improvements |
|**Created**    |21-JUNE-22 |
|**Author**     |KI & JT |
|**Purpose**    |Usa |
|**Layer**      |Core |
|**Complexity** |2 |
|**Status**     |Draft |

## Abstract

> Improve pegout related events for a better UX by emitting meaningful events, updating the `btcDestinationAddress` event signature, creating a new `pegout_confirmed` event and only emitting the `add_signature` event if a signature was actually added.

Reviewer: What do you think of adding this?

## Motivation

> ### release_request_received format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### release_request_received event data format
```

> These changes will improve the user experience of getting event information from the blockchain in a human readable/friendly format.

Reviewer: I feel like there's some context missing here. Before this part, we could include a brief description of how the btcDestinationAddress is logged right now (byte array of the hash160 representation), and how we'll improve this (logging the string representation).

Reviewer: I like the way you explained the motivation for `New pegout_confirmed event`

### New pegout_confirmed event

> At the moment clients don't have an easy way to know if a pegout has enough confirmations and is already waiting for signatures. With this new event, clients will be able know, probably live, when a pegout is already confirmed and waiting for signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment clients don't have an easy way to know if a pegout has enough confirmations and is already waiting for signatures. With this new event, clients will be able to know, probably live, when a pegout is already confirmed and waiting for signatures.
```

Reviewer 2: probably in real time*

An example of this is the 2wp-app/2wp-api. This tool informs users on the status of their pegout. Right now, to know if a pegout has been confirmed and is waiting for signature this tool makes intricate logic.

> ### add_signature event logging order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### add_signature event emitting instances
```
Not sure if it's the best suggestion, but events are emitted not logged

> In some cases a signature will not be added to a transaction, so there would not be a need to actually emit the `add_signature` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, a signature will not be added to a transaction when the Bridge method `addSignature` is called (for example, if the given signature is not valid). So there would not be a need to actually emit the `add_signature` event in these cases.
```

## Specification

### release_request_received changes

As of now, the `btcDestinationAddress` field logged by the `release_request_received` event is a hash160 bytes format which is not user friendly. This RSKIP proposes updating the `btcDestinationAddress` field to the string format which is more user friendly.

#### Current signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, bytes btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

The btcDestinationAddress field is currently in the bytes format.

#### Proposed signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, string btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

> The btcDestinationAddress field will be updated to a user friendly string format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The btcDestinationAddress field will be updated to a user friendly string format (base58 or bech32 depending on the address type).
```

##### Data

- sender: the RSK address of the peg-out requester.
- btcDestinationAddress: the derived BTC address of said RSK address, where the BTC will be transferred to.
- amount: amount in weis the user sent to the Bridge (this doesn't reflect how many BTC will be received since transfer fees will be deducted from that amount).

If `RSKIP326` is activated, the event will log the `btcDestinationAddress` field in a user friendly string format.

> ### pegout_confirmed event signature and description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New event, pegout_confirmed
```

# Pegout events improvements

|RSKIP          |326           |
| :------------ |:-------------|
|**Title**      |Pegout events improvements |
|**Created**    |21-JUNE-22 |
|**Author**     |KI & JT |
|**Purpose**    |Usa |
|**Layer**      |Core |
|**Complexity** |2 |
|**Status**     |Draft |

## Abstract

Improve pegout related events for a better UX by emitting meaningful events, updating the `btcDestinationAddress` event signature, creating a new `pegout_confirmed` event and only emitting the `add_signature` event if a signature was actually added.

## Motivation

### release_request_received event data format

These changes will improve the user experience of getting event information from the blockchain in a human readable/friendly format.

> Right now, the `btcDestinationAddress` is being printed as hexadecimal/hash160. This RSKIP suggests to change the format so it's in a `base58` format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right now, the `btcDestinationAddress` is being stored as the hash160 representation of the address. This RSKIP suggests changing the format to a string representation (`base58` or `bech32` format depending on the address type).
```

### New pegout_confirmed event

At the moment clients don't have an easy way to know if a pegout has enough confirmations and is already waiting for signatures. With this new event, clients will be able to know, probably live, when a pegout is already confirmed and waiting for signatures.

An example of this is the 2wp-app/2wp-api. This tool informs users on the status of their pegout. Right now, to know if a pegout has been confirmed and is waiting for signature this tool makes intricate logic.

### add_signature event emitting instances

In some cases, a signature will not be added to a transaction when the Bridge method `addSignature` is called (for example, if the given signature is not valid). So there would not be a need to actually emit the `add_signature` event in these cases.

## Specification

### release_request_received changes

> As of now, the `btcDestinationAddress` field logged by the `release_request_received` event is a hash160 bytes format which is not user friendly. This RSKIP proposes updating the `btcDestinationAddress` field to the string base58 format which is more user friendly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of now, the `btcDestinationAddress` field logged by the `release_request_received` event is a hash160 bytes format which is not user friendly. This RSKIP proposes updating the `btcDestinationAddress` field to its string representation (base58 or bech32) which is more user friendly.
```

#### Current signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, bytes btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

The btcDestinationAddress field is currently in the bytes format.

#### Proposed signature:

```
release_request_received(address indexed sender, string btcDestinationAddress, uint256 amount)
```

The btcDestinationAddress field will be updated to a user friendly string format (`base58` or bech32 depending on the address type).

##### Data

- sender: the RSK address of the peg-out requester.
- btcDestinationAddress: the derived BTC address of said RSK address, where the BTC will be transferred to.
- amount: amount in weis the user sent to the Bridge (this doesn't reflect how many BTC will be received since transfer fees will be deducted from that amount).

If `RSKIP326` is activated, the event will log the `btcDestinationAddress` field in a user friendly string format.

### New event, pegout_confirmed

> Currently no event is being emitted when a pegout that is waiting for confirmation (in the `releaseTransactionSet` structure) has the required confirmations and is moved to waiting for signatures (to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently no event is being emitted when a pegout that was waiting for confirmation (in the `releaseTransactionSet` structure) has gotten the required confirmations and is moved to waiting for signatures (to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`).
```

Right now, to check if a pegout has enough confirmation and that is moved to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures` structure, we need to get the state of the bridge and look for the pegout in `releaseTransactionSet` or `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`, which is not that performant or convenient.

We need to add a new event to the Bridge that will be emitted when the Bridge moves a pegout to the `rskTxsWaitingForSignatures`.
I propose this event is called `pegout_confirmed`.

This event will exist after the batch pegout consensus changes (HOP, RSKIP271).

```

> pegout_confirmed(bytes32 indexed btcTxHash, uint pegoutCreationBlockNumber)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pegout_confirmed(bytes32 indexed btcTxHash, uint pegoutCreationRskBlockNumber)
```

```

- `btcTxHash`: the hash of the Bitcoin transaction without signatures that was just created

> - `pegoutCreationBlockNumber`: the block where the pegout transaction was created, this is just informational value and totally optional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `pegoutCreationRskBlockNumber`: the RSK block where the pegout transaction was created, this is just informational value and totally optional
```

### add_signature event logging order

> Emit the `add_signature` event if the transaction was actually signed, not when there's an attempt to sign it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Emit the `add_signature` event when the transaction has been actually signed, not when there's an attempt to sign it.
```

> Emit the `add_signature` event when the transaction has been actually signed, not when there's an attempt to sign it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Emit the `add_signature` event after the transaction has been actually signed, not when there's an attempt to sign it.
```

## Backwards Compatibility

This change is a hard-fork and therefore all full nodes, block explorers must be updated. SPV light-clients do not need to be updated. 

## References

[1] [RSKIP-185](https://github.com/rsksmart/RSKIPs/blob/master/IPs/RSKIP185.md)

> [2] [RSKIP-271]https://github.com/rsksmart/RSKIPs/blob/master/IPs/RSKIP271.md

Reviewer: The format is a bit odd here 
<img width="760" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/53787863/186162819-316ab8ee-9096-4c8c-a392-dbcbbc7dbb61.png">

This event will exist after the batch pegout consensus changes (HOP, RSKIP271).

```
pegout_confirmed(bytes32 indexed btcTxHash, uint256 pegoutCreationRskBlockNumber)
```

- `btcTxHash`: the hash of the Bitcoin transaction without signatures that was just created

> - `pegoutCreationRskBlockNumber`: the RSK block where the pegout transaction was created, this is just informational value and totally optional

Reviewer: Remember to reflect this change in the rskj implementation
